After Class:

Finally a person who clearly knows what he is teaching! We understand the knowledge of a person not only when he speaks 
but when he is able to communicate and deliver it to others. This class is going to be fun.

1] OK THEN. I need to know about a lot of things about a lot of things to become a sys admin. The good thing is that we 
achieve it by experienec and not by reading some book. Great!

2] I liked that Professor emphasized on the topic of Usability and Security because it was the exact problem i faced while 
deploying stuff at my previous job. Teaching a junior wordpress developer why something is configuerd in a particular way is 
important since we might be leaving loopholes which can be exploited.
IF IT CAN HAPPEN, IT WILL HAPPEN! 

3] He talked about a banana being connected to a raspberry pie for wifi passwords. everything seemed fine to me but what was 
exactly triggering the system?
The answer was that the touching the banana created a tiny electrical connection, which then changed the it’s 
capacitance – a change that could be detected by the circuit board.
(I dont know shit about computing seriously) 

Ive come to a point in life, that the more im learning, im understanding, I DONT KNOW SHIT. Long way to go.

3] So basically a job of a system adminstrator? To know everything? 
If you dont know something? Learn it, Know it & Implement it.

4] Zipties and ductapes have always been my best friend. No problem on that professor. 
Need to buy a good leatherman tool though.

5] He talked about caffeine but why not RedBull?Remembered my time in Boston Hackathon which i 
went almost 3 days without sleep and endless cans of redbull.

6] Ive always been a behind the scenes kind of guy so this profession is going to be perfect for me

FUN FACT: Of all the SysAdmins ive met, the professor respects designers, programmers and other working. 
Others? Well they dont even consider others working to be people. Love/Hate relationship? Nope, im good.

Important points to note:

heavy reliance on practical experience
specializations in many different areas possible
breadth of expertise as necessary as depth in some areas
background knowledge and requirements vary

& while doing something, THE MOST IMP THINGS TO NOTE:

Scalability - How long will it run and expand?
Security - How long will it stand and be up and running?
Simplicity - Will a layman understand what you have done/created?

He again emphasized on Usability and Security. I think this will always be an issue for many years and it is not going 
to go away soon. Classic Chicken and egg scenaior.

Keep it Simply Stupid Folks! Aye Aye Captain!

Murphy’s Law:
“If it can happen, it will happen.” (Been there, done that Professor).
For every effect, there must be a cause. Mostly users are the cause and not some hacker inside the network.

After class i asked a question: What was the biggest problem you have faced as a SysAdmin.
This person deleted students databse and details back in the day when he was working at stevens.
What a blessing to those who have flunked classes.

Answered: Pretty many things got cleared as he spoke.
Questions Remained: How does a SysAdmin face a DDoS attack on a system he is monitoring. 
I mean an IDS or any firewell can detect such stuff but what can a SysAdmin to minimize the damage under heavy load?

https://simplercloud.wordpress.com/2014/07/25/what-do-system-administrators-do-all-day/
https://www.paysa.com/blog/2016/12/05/the-essential-guide-to-becoming-a-systems-administrator/

