02- Pre Second Lecture

Today's lecture is all going to be about Data Storage & Management. 

People have a wrong concept of "cloud". A tech guy will understand its just someone else's computer 
stored at a different location. You use his computer as a resource to power your product.
Or as we term it "outsourcing" the job.

I just remembered, I wrote an article long back on my own blog of ssd vs nvme vs m2e vs pcie
http://thetechiesguide.com/tech/ssd-vs-m-2-vs-pcie-vs-nvme/2928/
And apparently about RAID too.
http://thetechiesguide.com/tech/what-is-raid/2722/

There are so many things we do everyday but I barely remember the terms used. like DAS,LVM etc.

Point to be noted: 

1] As system administrators, we frequently need to carefully eliminate possible causes 
of failures, so the fewer layers of indirection we have between the operating system issuing I/O
 operations and the bits actually ending up on a storage medium, the better.

2] The benefits of using a central file server for data storage are immediate and obvious: data is no 
longer restricted to a single physical or virtual host and can be accessed (simultaneously) by multiple
clients. By pooling larger resources in a dedicated NAS device, more storage becomes available.
Other than the performance impact we mentioned above, the distinct disadvantage lies in the fact that 
the data becomes unavailable if the net- work connection su↵ers a disruption.

3] Storage area networks are frequently labeled an “enterprise solution” due to their significant 
performance advantages and distributed nature.

4] SANs overcome their restriction to a local area network by further encap- sulation of the protocol:
Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) or iSCSI, for example, allow connecting switched SAN 
components across a Wide Area Network (or WAN).

5] By relying on abstracted storage containers from a third-party provider (Cloud), we remove the ability
to troubleshoot a system end-to-end; by outsourcing data storage, we invite a number of security concerns
regarding data safety and privacy; by accessing files over the Internet, we may increase latency and
decrease throughput; the cloud service provider may become a single point of failure for our systems, 
one that is entirely outside our control.

6] The larger we grow our storage re- quirements, the more complex the architecture grows.

7] Redundancy Reliability and Resilience.

8] Hot-swapping, greater transfer speeds - Advantages of SATA

9] people have started to simply create a single partition occupying only about 25% of the disk at the 
beginning and ignoring the rest. technique, known as “short stroking”

10] In the BSD family of operating systems, the volume boot record contains a disklabel, detailed 
information about the geometry of the disk and the par- titions it is divided into.

11] Wouldn’t it be nice if we could simply combine the storage from multiple disk drives and then create 
partitions spanning the total?
Enter logical volumes. Much like a SAN may combine multiple storage devices and make them available to 
its clients, so does a logical volume manager (or LVM) combine multiple physical devices and present them 
to the OS as a single resource.

12] Stuff ive written on my blog, still ...
RAID 0 RAID 1 RAID 2 RAID 3 RAID 4 RAID 5 RAID 6
Striped array (block level), no parity or mirroring Mirrored array, no parity or striping
Striped array (bit level) with dedicated parity
Striped array (byte level) with dedicated parity
Striped array (block level) with dedicated parity
Striped array (block level) with distributed parity Striped array (block level) with double 
distributed parity

13] a distributed file system may allow di↵erent client systems to access a centralized storage resource 
simultaneously, thus forming the basis for any NAS solutions. (clients no longer operate on the block 
level of the storage)

14] Everything is a file (For Unix). As Always

15] Most Unix systems impose a maximum file name length of 255 bytes and a maximum pathname length of 
1024 bytes; however, these are file system and OS specific limits. : Okay didnt knew this.

Questions: How do small companies handle storage failure if they dont have RAID or any such setup?

